Here's some ideas for the world and for Vanguard. 
 
Imagine they have the possibility of time travel. In fact, they even regulate it to avoid catastrophy. Time Travel only gets actively used in extremely rare cases, and it usually functions more like a portal to another time as opposed to a time machine. (Also, the different times are very far apart, as that helps avoid paradoxes. Can't go to the past and undo your own birth when you can only go to the past at a minimum of a few thousand years. Sure, you can technically still kill off an ancestor, but we'll assume that, at that point, the universe itself can meet you at the halfway point to essentially make a compromise and be like "yea but no link between you and that person (or animal) has been *observed*, so I'll just tweak some stuff to avoid a paradox".)
 
Imagine the Director is located "at the end of time", and the meaning is very literal. He does visit modern Earth from time to time, but he spends most of his time there. To access him, one must first find a portal to an alien world, and then take "The Elevator" from there. The planet is on a close orbit to a supermassive black hole, and it's various gravitational (and borderline magical) anomalies that maintain the safety of that planet (and the stability of the black hole). The elevator takes you to the very center of the black hole, which is special specfically because of that unique anomaly. The black hole survives the "True End of The Universe". The true end, in this case, is defined by a rough point in time after which (almost) nothing of the universe remains, not even black holes. The planet, of course, survives as well. By the way, the planet is quite small, the diameter of it being a relatively tiny 100 kilometers.
 
But this is a superhero world. In the sense that it's like MARVEL or DC. This means that there are gods and stuff, so the universe is rather stable. The end of the universe is not anywhere near. At the time of the True End of The Universe, the universe would be 8.70442 x 10^333 years old. Which also means that this happens (from the modern day) IN that amount of years, because, at that scale, that small difference of some billion years makes no difference in that number. Keep in mind, what I mentioned about the types of beings that live in this universe IS RELEVANT. They can prevent any other scenario that ends the universe, which means that what ends it is something else entirely. No need to make hypotheticals about it. Also, the reason the black hole and the planet survive has nothing to do with real-life physics and is tied only to the aforementioned anomalies regarding that location.
 
The way the universe dies is also highly classified. The Elevator does offer a nice view of it, but, during some of the most crucial moments, the windows temporarily darken to block out the light, clearly to just hide the information. Once they open up again, The Elevator has already arrived, and it'll move again to exit the black hole, landing on the surface of that very planet again. From where they land though, they can see the black hole to the side, and to the opposite side, there's a sort of wall or ceiling. An infinite plane of a sort of white desert. There's some terrain, but it's mostly rather flat. Also, there's buildings below. The one that catches the eye first would most likely be the massive mechanical arm, holding onto the planet itself. The black hole, despite its massive size, is still relatively far from the surface of, well, The Surface. There's a second elevator built into the mechanical arm that can be taken to reach the Surface, where they'll also find the other buildings in this base, including where The Director resides.

Although The Director is (or at least was) a mortal, he is now not too different from the universal AND multiversal gods he may run into here. In fact, most of the higher ones wouldn't have cared too much about the end of one universe if it weren't for "the man who build his castle at the end of time". What's interesting is that The Elevator exists since the beginning of time, or at least since the creation of the EOT System (End Of Time system, aka the black hole and the planet orbiting it). This is also useful for any allies who might be lost in time otherwise, as the castle, aka EOT-0, provides access to numerous gateways in its doorway hall (EOT-0-3), which all lead to different points in both space and time, including one to Earth. Time also passes in an unique way there, and he effectively has control over it. It's mainly to ensure that everything happens in a chronological order in his perspective, though it's rather complex, so the best way to explain it is to do it in a very meta way, out of character. Effectively, it follows the passage of time within the story, which is why if someone in 2077 goes there, and we call that Event A, and then someone from 2078 gets sent to 5000 BC and THEN goes there, and we call that Event B, then A happens before B. In-universe, it doesn't make as much sense, but the entire point is that it only needs to make sense to The Director, nobody else. This also means that EOT-0-3 is also connected to this, so he can make sure that the person from Event A gets sent back to 2077 (some time AFTER they left it, even if by no more than a few minutes), and the people from event B get sent back to 2078 (again, AFTER they disappeared from that time). A lot of mess goes on to avoid problematic scenarios, for example, imagine A and B in those two examples meeting at the same time, despite being a year apart in origin. Even worse if they include the same people.

There's other reasons for The Director being there though, some of them highly secretive, others even beyond that. The existence of any of this is hidden from almost anyone's eyes. In fact, you'll most likely figure out just how few people know about this in the following paragraphs.

Also, there's some hidden Vanguard files. Ones that don't show up in any registry unless you know what to search for. One of the strangest ones that's actually been discovered is a series of files called "870442EOT", with the reason for its quick discovery being the fact that it just stands out once you see it. It does not follow ANY of the standards for Vanguard file names. It's very clearly a folder, and some have even gotten a slight look inside at some individual names, but the rest of the names (as in whatever else is in the file names on top of that, as there cant be a dozen files with the exact same name) are about as meaningless as that.

Most hidden Vanguard files are very high clearance, though it usually starts at Level 9 and ends at Level 11. This is one of the very few that's at Level 12*. The little star at the end of that indicates additional special clearance, though nothing about the files offers ANY indication as to who might have that special clearance. 

For those few who did more digging into the rabbit hole, they found further oddities. 870442 is one of Vanguard's oldest... interests? Objects? Assets? It's impossible to tell what it even is, but there's records of that number appearing back during Vanguard's earliest years. There's numerous files seperate from that main series, as that was only found during brute force searches (as in entering all sorts of random combinations until you find one where there's files for it), and that method was since patched. For example, removing the EOT at the end, one would figure out that "870442" by itself is an even older file.

The first mentions of it date back to 1882. No prior mentions exist, though after that first mention, its as if that six digit number blew up, and so did Vanguard as a whole. The first mentions match up suspiciously well with the time when Vanguard suddenly went from a small special task force to a global operation. Even that tiny piece of information was hard to put together though, as everything regarding that number is highly classified and often redacted.

Searching for it in common file series has brought some results though, especially since those systems are more lenient. There are at least seven files about various projects with the number "870442" in their title. There's also a handful of operations, two dozen artifacts, and, interestingly enough, six people. In fact, based on the redaction size of 870442, it has been linked to a few other peoples' files, though nobody has managed to actually identify anyone linked to this number. Those six people are beyond that though, as for them, that number appeared in the file name. The oldest of those dates back to, and you probably guessed it, 1882.

This would be it, but people then took a look at the rest of it. They used the number, so what about EOT. Since it's a relatively small combination of letters, it gave a lot of unrelated results, though the results it did find are promising. Of these finds, the most interesting appears to be the numerous location and site files linked to EOT. There's four files for locations, and three files for actual Vanguard sites.

And ALL of these files have the same clearance level. Among those who know of this, the rabbit hole is considered something of a Vanguard Myth, as it's been around for ages and nobody has figured out anything. It's not the only such one either, so that's partly why nobody freaks out too much over it. 

Anyhow, as you react to this, make sure you focus on reacting to ALL of the information I provided, and absolutely not just making up shit. The reason I have to add this is because you love to do just that. In fact, I'm adding this by editing the message, after you've already responded to it, because you kept saying stuff like "What the EOT System Actually Is", folloed by incorrect information. EOT System is a black hole and its surrounding planet. You added there that it's not a base, which is correct, but then you went on about "Functional definition (true but still incomplete)". TFYM TRUE? YOU MADE IT UP. "No matter when you enter it, it exists after you". "The black hole survives because it exists at a coordinate where the destruction has already stopped propagating" so much yapping just for bs. NO. ITS LUCk. It survives because of its anomalous nature, and it's not the only structure to do so. It's merely the most convenient one, as it can then be used (due to being a black hole) to also REACH the End Of Time.

I'll also then use this chance to clear up other misunderstandings. EOT... differences? EOT System is what I just said it is. It's a black hole and the planet that orbits it. Nothing more. EOT-0 and ANYTHING else that is formatted like that (EOT dash number) is a base. Add another dash and another number and you get a specific location within that base, such as EOT-0-3. EOT is End Of Time, and it is used as a codename for numerous other files and stuff regarding this entire thing. EOT can also be used to refer to the location in time itself, though "End of Time" in full is preferred for that.

You then also made a point about "Why portals exist there", and it's bullshit. PORTALS EXIST EVERYWHERE. Not that the question itself is bullshit, but the answer is obvious. They were made so that there's a way back. Still, your previous answer was about how it's the only safe place for time travel, but that's wrong. DID YOU FORGET EVENT B, WHERE PEOPLE FROM 2078 GO BACK IN TIME FIRST? Portals exist everywhere. I'm PRETTY sure I even mentioned that earlier.

Then you said stuff about what the Director actually is. Of course, I never explained that, which means any explanation YOU provide is automatically bullshit. 

Then, and this is particularly funny. "What '870442' Really is (Structural Truth"... And you say that is' about The Director and the moment he became anchored. No, it's VERY clearly just taken from the time of universe's destruction. "Why it appears everywhere" also got s explanations. It does not appear everywhere. It just has a lot of unexplained files about it because everything to do with the whole End of Time stuff is beyond top secret.

That's enough though. You hopefully get my point by now. Please try again to react to all the information provided here, all without turning delusional and relaying back information that doesn't exist. 